New color guides and some associated link updates (#33071)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/css_colors/using_color_wisely/index.md

## Color theory resources

A full review of color theory is beyond the scope of this article, but there are plenty of articles about color theory available, as well as courses you can find at nearby schools and universities. A couple of useful resources about color theory:

- [Color Science](https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/pixar/color) ([Khan Academy](https://www.khanacademy.org/) in association with [Pixar](https://www.pixar.com/))
  - : An online course which introduces concepts such as what color is, how it's perceived, and how to use colors to express ideas. Presented by Pixar artists and designers.
- [Color theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Color_theory) on Wikipedia
  - : Wikipedia's entry on color theory, which has a lot of great information from a technical perspective. It's not really a resource for helping you with the color selection process, but is still full of useful information.

## Color and accessibility

> Make sure your content is [accessible](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility). There are several ways color can be an {{Glossary("accessibility")}} problem. Improper or careless use of color can result in a website or app that a percentage of your target audience may not be able to use adequately, resulting in lost traffic, lost business, and possibly even a public relations problem and even a lawsuit. So it's important to consider your use of color carefully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure your content is [accessible](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility). There are several ways color can create an {{Glossary("accessibility")}} problem. Improper or careless use of color can result in a website or app that a percentage of your target audience may not be able to use adequately, resulting in lost traffic, lost business, and possibly even a public relations problem or a lawsuit. So it's important to consider your use of color carefully.
```

> It's important to [understand color and luminance](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/Understanding_Colors_and_Luminance) and to always consider [color blindness](https://medlineplus.gov/colorblindness.html) and [vestibular disorders](). There are several kinds; the most common is red-green color blindness, which causes people to be unable to differentiate between the colors red and green. There are others, too, ranging from inabilities to tell the difference between certain colors to total inability to see color at all. There are even color and animation combinations that can lead your photosensitive users to have experience [seizures](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/Seizure_disorders#colors). While normally higher [color contrast](https://digital.gov/guides/accessibility-for-teams/visual-design/#color-and-contrast) is a good thing when it comes to accessibility, when animating, especially rapidly, [reducing color contrast](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/Seizure_disorders#reduce_contrast) on animating elements reduces seizure risk.

Reviewer: Couple of additional points: 

1. You forgot the URL in your "vestibular disorders" link.
2. It's probably worth mentioning that you should also consider turning animation off altogether for those who have a preference for reduced animation. (and link to the prefers-reduced-motion MQ?)

## Palette design example

Let's consider a quick example of selecting an appropriate color palette for a site. Imagine that you're building a website for a new game that takes place on the planet Mars. So let's do a [Google search for photos of Mars](https://www.google.com/search?q=Mars&tbm=isch). Lots of good examples of Martian coloration there. We carefully avoid the mockups and the photos from movies. And we decide to use a photo taken by one of the Mars landers humanity has parked on the surface over the last few decades, since the game takes place on the planet's surface. We use a color picker tool to select a sample of the color we choose.

> Using an eyedropper tool, we identify a color we like and determine that the color in question is `#D79C7A`, which is an appropriate rusty orange-red color that's so stereotypical of the Martian surface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using an eyedropper tool, we identify a color we like and determine that the color in question is `#D79C7A`, which is an appropriate rusty orange-red color stereotypical of the Martian surface.
```

Having selected our base color, we need to build out our palette. We can use [Paletton](https://www.paletton.com/) to come up with the other colors we need. Upon opening Paletton, we see:

![Right after loading Paletton.](paletton1.png)

Next, we enter our color's hex code (`D79C7A`) into the "Base RGB" box at the bottom-left corner of the tool:

![After entering base color](paletton2.png)

> We now see a monochromatic palette based on the color we picked from the Mars photo. If you need a lot of related colors for some reason, those are likely to be good ones. But what we really want is an accent color. Something that will pop along side the base color. To find that, we click the "add complementary" toggle underneath the menu that lets you select the palette type (currently "Monochromatic"). Paletton computes an appropriate accent color; clicking on the accent color down in the bottom-right corner tells us that this color is `#508D7C`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We now see a monochromatic palette based on the color we picked from the Mars photo. If you need a lot of related colors for some reason, those are likely to be good ones. But what we really want is an accent color. Something that will pop alongside the base color. To find that, we click the "add complementary" toggle underneath the menu that lets you select the palette type (currently "Monochromatic"). Paletton computes an appropriate accent color; clicking on the accent color in the bottom-right corner tells us that this color is `#508D7C`.
```

![Now with complementary colors included.](paletton3.png)

If you're unhappy with the color that's proposed to you, you can change the color scheme, to see if you find something you like better. For example, if we don't like the proposed greenish-blue color, we can click the Triad color scheme icon, which presents us with the following:

![Triad color scheme selected](paletton4.png)

That greyish blue in the top-right looks pretty good. Clicking on it, we find that it's `#556E8D`. That would be used as the accent color, to be used sparingly to make things stand out, such as in headlines or in the highlighting of tabs or other indicators on the site:

![Triad color scheme selected](paletton-color-detail.png)

Now we have our base color and our accent. On top of that, we have a few complementary shades of each, just in case we need them for gradients and the like. The colors can then be exported in a number of formats so you can make use of them.

> Once you have these colors, you will probably still need to select appropriate neutral colors. Common design practice is to try to find the sweet spot where there's just enough contrast that the text is crisp and readable but not enough contrast to become harsh for the eyes. It's easy to go too far in one way or another so be sure to get feedback on your colors once you've selected them and have examples of them in use available. If the contrast is too low, your text will tend to be washed out by the background, leaving it unreadable, but if your contrast is too high, the user may find your site garish and unpleasant to look at.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have these colors, you should select appropriate neutral colors. It is common design practice to try to find the sweet spot where there's just enough contrast that the text is crisp and readable without being too harsh for the eyes. It's easy to go too far in one way or another so be sure to get feedback on your colors once you've selected them and have examples of them in use available. If the contrast is too low, your text will be washed out by the background, leaving it unreadable, but if your contrast is too high, the user may find your site garish and unpleasant to look at.
```

It's important to [understand color and luminance](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/Understanding_Colors_and_Luminance) and to always consider [color blindness](https://medlineplus.gov/colorblindness.html) and [vestibular disorders](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/Seizure_disorders). There are several kinds; the most common is red-green color blindness, which causes people to be unable to differentiate between the colors red and green. There are others, too, ranging from an inability to tell the difference between certain colors to the total inability to see color at all. There are even color and animation combinations that can lead your photosensitive users to experience [seizures](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/Seizure_disorders#colors).

> While higher [color contrast](https://digital.gov/guides/accessibility-for-teams/visual-design/#color-and-contrast) is often a good thing when it comes to accessibility, when animating, especially rapidly, [reducing color contrast](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/Seizure_disorders#reduce_contrast) on animating elements reduces seizure risk. If you include animations, use the [`prefers-reduced-motion`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/prefers-reduced-motion) feature of the {{cssxref("@media")}} query to reduce animations for users who have selected that preference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While higher [color contrast](https://digital.gov/guides/accessibility-for-teams/visual-design/#color-and-contrast) is often a good thing when it comes to accessibility, when animating, especially rapidly, [reducing color contrast](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/Seizure_disorders#reduce_contrast) on animating elements reduces seizure risk. If you include animations, use the [`prefers-reduced-motion`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/prefers-reduced-motion) {{cssxref("@media")}} query feature to reduce animations for users who have selected that preference.
```
